the procedure that's called endoscopic
mucosal resection where the abnormal
lining is actually cut out through an
endoscope was actually pioneered in
Japan there are several centers in the
United States where this is performed
the usually centers that specialize on
Barrett's esophagus and where the
endoscopists have a higher level of
expertise and we do receive patients
from all over the country who are
interested in exploring this procedure
versus either endoscopic removal of the
esophagus or potentially ablation in
endoscopic mucosal resection is
typically performed for Barrett's
esophagus with either pre-cancer what
it's called high-grade dysplasia or an
early cancer what is called an intra
mucosal adenocarcinoma one that hasn't
breached the deep layers of the
esophagus these patients are sedated for
a standard endoscopic procedure the
endoscope typically is inserted through
the mouth of the patient and has a small
plastic cap at the end of the scope the
lining of the esophagus is pulled into
the cap and a snare is basically put
around the polyp that is created and
then using current and the snare the
polyp or the lining of the esophagus is
removed we can do several of these at a
time effectively removing you know
several centimeters of the lining of the
esophagus the procedure goes through the
endoscopic mucosal layer as well as the
submucosal layer and the specimen that
is removed is sent to a pathologist for
interpretation so you're able to
actually obtain a pathologic report of
what was removed and what the patient
had which is an advantage of this
procedure and the best data we have from
this has actually been done in Germany
where they've been doing the procedure
for several years now and patients who
underwent this procedure for early
intracoastal cancer were noted to have
the same age adjusted survival as the
average German population over a
five year period so it's quite effective
for the treatment of early cancer